---
title: 'Interview Guidelines'
description: 'You can submit your own founder interview if you adhere to these guidelines.'
---

# Interview Guidelines

Your interview is going to be read by people very early in their startup life so please explain things in detail (but not too much detail, we want it to be easily digestable). It's the same 10 questions for all interviews.

**Be honest, and transparent. No BS.**

You must have at least $500 MRR to submit a interview. Interviews may or may not go live depending on the quality, so be sure to fix typos etc.

## Submitting

To submit your interview just follow the steps below. 

1. copy the [example.md](https://github.com/timb-103/saas-starter-stack/blob/main/interviews/1.example.md)
2. rename it to your startups name eg. pallyy.md
3. add your answers and [open a pull request](https://github.com/timb-103/saas-starter-stack/pulls)

[Here's the example you can use](/interviews/example).

Alternatively you can leave your interview in a [new discussion](https://github.com/timb-103/saas-starter-stack/discussions/new?category=show-and-tell) and we'll format it for you.

Interviews will be ordered by their submission date.

## Questions

- [1] What's your startups name, what does it do, how long have you been working on it and (optional) your MRR?
- [2] Whats your name and what were you doing before?
- [3] How did you come up with your startup and it's name?
- [4] Are you a programmer, if so, how did you learn, how long did it take?
- [5] How long did it take you to build a mvp, did you do any validation?
- [6] what was your launch like, what did you do, was it a success?
- [7] How long did it take to get your first customer?
- [8] What's your top marketing methods and how can others start doing them?
- [9] Whats the top 5 tools you use to run your startup?
- [10] What would you do differently if starting over?

