# TalkNotes

## 1. What's your startups name, what does it do, how long have you been working on it and (optional) your MRR?
[TalkNotes](https://talknotes.io)! It's an AI VoiceNote app, I've been working on it since August 2023, and it's at $3500 MRR

## 2. What's your name and what were you doing before?
My name is Nico, and before that, I launched lots of apps. Before launching apps I was doing advertising and eCommerce.

## 3. How did you come up with your startup and it's name?
Honestly, I just took whatever domain name was available. I wanted something related to voice + note, talknotes was available so I took it!

## 4. Are you a programmer, if so, how did you learn and how long did it take?
I learned to code in around 2 months. I took a course about Python, Machine learning and making Webapps using Node. But this only gave me the basics, I think it easily took me a year to be comfortable enough to make anything I want.

## 5. How long did it take you to build a mvp, did you do any validation?
I made the MVP in 5 or 6 days I think. I posted on some online directories and Twitter, and validated the idea like that.

## 6. What was your launch like, what did you do, was it a success?
The first launch was mid-successful, but when I posted on ProductHunt it blew up!

## 7. How long did it take to get your first customer?
Under 24h after the launch!

## 8. What's your top marketing methods and how can others start doing them?
To validate ideas, definitely posting on Twitter and directories. To grow/scale, Meta ads has been my #1 channel.

Posting on Twitter and directories is pretty easy, you just need a good landing page and write a nice post. For ads it's a bit more complex, I have 7 years of experience in advertising, but I'd definitely recommend studying the kind of ads you get on your newsfeed

## 9. Whats the top 5 tools you use to run your startup?

- Nuxt + Tailwind! I started coding in vanilla HTML/CSS/JS, but recently switched to Nuxt/Tailwind and it's a game-changer, much faster!
- Cloudflare Pages! It's a 100% free hosting with unlimited bandwidth, perfect to go with Nuxt
- ChatGPT + Copilot. Pretty obvious now, but I use them for 80% of my tasks. Fron coding to writing content
- Milanote: No one know about this one but it's the absolute goat when it comes to organizing ideas and brainstorming. It's basically a virtual whiteboard. Absolutely love it.
- Plausible / Simple Analytics. Google Analytics is bloated af and. the new UI is terrible, so I ended up removing it completely and switched to those tools. Only downside is that they're privacy-first, so tracking is not 100% accurate.


## 10. What would you do differently if starting over?
I would focus on a product with a higher value. Talknotes have $12/month subscriptions, which isn't much when you need to spend $30-$50 in ads to get customers. I make the money back after a couple of months of subscription, but you need to manage cash flow properly.

[Read the next interview](gliglish)