## 1. What's your startups name, what does it do, how long have you been working on it and (optional) your MRR?

[Boords](https://boords.com) – the modern storyboarding tool for video professionals. 

We provide creativity-enabling AI image and script generation tools that help video professionals dramatically increase storyboarding capacity, alongside organisational tools to manage pre-production workflows from script to sign-off. 

We’ve been working on Boords since 2017, and we’re currently at ~$60K MRR. 

## 2. What's your name and what were you doing before?

I’m [James](https://twitter.com/jameschambers). Before Boords I co-founded an agency where we produced web projects & animation for clients. 

## 3. How did you come up with your startup and it's name?

It was a classic scratch-your-own-itch problem. In our agency we regularly made storyboards for client projects. It was a total pain in the ass. So, being a developer, I built a little web-app which could make the process easier. It saved us so much time we decided to product. We knew other companies in the industry who had the same problem, so were confident we’d find an initial market. 

The Boords name is a play on storyboards. We picked it largely because we could get the .com domain. 

## 4. Are you a programmer, if so, how did you learn and how long did it take?

Yes - i’ll let you know how long when I’ve finished learning! I started by making my own portfolio site in Dreamweaver (I’m old) before moving into software development proper. I believe in learning by doing, so I’ve always just found something I want to build and figured out how to do it as I go. 

## 5. How long did it take you to build a mvp, did you do any validation?

About a month. We were able to test the tool internally on live projects which was a massive leg up. Building something for a pain point you truly understand is essential. 

## 6. What was your launch like, what did you do, was it a success?

We launched by sharing Boords with on our agency socials, then began the long, slow climb of inbound SEO. 

## 7. How long did it take to get your first customer?

Around a week after launch. 

## 8. What's your top marketing methods and how can others start doing them?

Inbound SEO and word-of-mouth referrals. 

SEO is a long game, but pays off spectacularly if you stay consistent. We generated 100M impressions and 2M clicks over the last 16 months. 

If you’re planning to use SEO, I’d recommend doing basic keyword research using a tool like Ahrefs or Google Keyword Planner to assess whether enough people are searching for a tool like yours (or related tools), and how difficult it will be to rank for those keywords. If I were starting a new product tomorrow and wanted to reach customers through search, this is the first thing I’d do. 

If you can’t use SEO (due to lack of keyword volume/availability, or you just don’t want to), you’re looking at paid or social. Both can work of course, but tend to be much more volatile and/or expensive. 

## 9. Whats the top 5 tools you use to run your startup?

- Stable Diffusion → We use a custom model to generate storyboard images.
- Rails → Boring, predictable, and exactly what you want for the foundation of a product.
- Codeship → Continuous Deployment. Knowing everything works as expected when we make a change is priceless.
- Ahrefs → Keyword research for organic content, internal link management, etc.
- Notion → Home to all our product management, playbooks, you name it.

## 10. What would you do differently if starting over?

I’d create a go-to-market strategy before building anything. Knowing how to reach customers is critical. We were lucky to be able to do this via search, but it took a long time to figure out, and a strategic approach would have been enormously helpful.
