# BrandBird
Learn how Jim built BrandBird in a single day and how focusing on top-notch product experience boosts word-of-mouth.

## 1. What's your startup's name, what does it do, how long have you been working on it and (optional) your MRR?
[BrandBird](https://www.brandbird.app) is a powerful screenshot editor for SaaS founders. 

It started as a Twitter post maker but now is an all-around tool for product graphics (changelog, newsletters, blog posts, social media graphics etc.).

I've been building BrandBird for the past 3 years. It started as a fun side project but it quickly became my main source of income and keeps on growing since day one.

## 2. What's your name and what were you doing before?
My name is Jim Raptis. I've been building SaaS products for almost a decade. For the past few years, I'm an indie hacker, aka building niche SaaS products on my own. Right now, I run two SaaS products ([BrandBird](https://www.brandbird.app) and [MagicPattern](https://www.MagicPattern.design)) and working on a new creative video editor ([SuperMotion](https://www.SuperMotion.co)).

## 3. How did you come up with your startup and it's name?
I used to post design tips on Twitter. Figma was my main design tool since I used to freelance as a UI designer. However the process was hectic and I used to spend so much time trying to create posts with consistent branding. 

I decided to build a simple image editor to create this kind of Twitter posts easier. Mostly for personal usage, but I said: "Why not try to sell it as well?".

Twitter (aka Bird) was the main target audience and the main purpose was to keep the user branding (Brand) consistent across all their posts. 

Brand + Bird.

BrandBird use cases are a bit different now, but I still love the name so I kept it. 

## 4. Are you a programmer, if so, how did you learn and how long did it take?
Yep, I'm a creative frontend engineer. I learned most of my skills when I co-founded a VC-backed company. We needed a website and a web app for our first MVP then I had to quickly learn how to code in JavaScript. I spend two weeks watching tutorials all day long and jumped into coding.

My background helped though. I had a master in computer science. The university courses helped my learn the basics, but I mastered frontend with YouTube videos, blog posts, and by peeping on popular open source projects on GitHub.

Learning by doing is the best way to master a skill like coding (and design).

## 5. How long did it take you to build a mvp, did you do any validation?
I built the MVP in a day because I challenged myself to launch a full SaaS in a single weekend. 

It's a hack that I use often a lot because it helped my narrow down the MVP scope and launch it as quicky as possible. 

Strict deadlines force your mind to focus only on the important stuff and avoid procrastinating on useless things.

## 6. What was your launch like, what did you do, was it a success?
On Saturday, I announced on Twitter that I'll launch a SaaS in a day, and I posted updates throughout the day. People followed along and loved the experience. At the end of the day, the MVP was ready. I hooked up a simple Gumroad link to gauge demand and launched it on Twtiter. 

On Sunday, I launched on Product Hunt as well. People loved it and started buying the product. So I knew i was into something valuable. 

## 7. How long did it take to get your first customer?
It was a few hours after the launch. It's always the best feeling when the 1st sale for a new project lands in your inbox.

## 8. What's your top marketing methods and how can others start doing them?
Building in public was always my main marketing tactic. I was very active on Twitter and a few other indie hacking communities. Most of my early traffic came from these channels. 

In the upcoming months, I focused on the product experience and onboarding to help users enjoy the product and get the most value possible. 

It's always a great investment because it increases your word-of-mouth and turns your users into loyal ambassadors who keep on recommending your product to friends and social media.

In parallel, I invested in SEO with articles and free tools relevant to my customers. SEO is the best kind of organic traffic, but it is almost passive when you do it smartly.

Now, traffic is a combination of social media marketing, SEO, and word-of-mouth.

## 9. Whats the top 5 tools you use to run your startup?
1. Stripe for payments
2. Vercel & Next.js for the frontend
3. Heroku & MongoDB for the backend
4. Customer.io for emails
5. Mixpanel for analytics

Since I'm a big fan of dogfooding products, [BrandBird](https://www.brandbird.app) itself is a core part of my toolset since I use it for almost all my designs.

## 10. What would you do differently if starting over?
1. Spent more time on marketing! As a technical founder, I'm guilty of spending countless hours optimizing useless stuff.

2. Narrow down the scope of my SaaS and target a very specific customer persona in the beginning. I spend a few months trying to sell to everyone. It's such a bad strategy, especially when starting out, because your offer is too generic. Then, you end up with various customer personas that have demand/need completely different things.

Also, a strategy that I want to evaluate in future products is the following:

"Create a waitlist and perform 1:1 user interviews with early customers. Once the products become a valuable part of their workflow, launch it in the public."
